"What do you coach about... ?"

So many conversations start this way. 
- How big should our stories be? 
- Which things should we mock?
- Should we branch?

Each of those questions points to a bigger picture. And it's that picture that I find really interesting.

Don't get me wrong. Lots of folks have written good stuff about these topics and others. Here's [Geepaw on legacy code](http://anarchycreek.com/2010/02/18/legacy-tdd-coach-not-knowing/). And Here's [a still-valuable classic by Martin Fowler](http://www.amazon.com/Refactoring-Improving-Design-Existing-Code/dp/0201485672).

When I coach a technical team, I'm not there to bestow answers to technical questions. Yeah, I'll show them how to look at their code differently, write some tests with them. But I am not there to bestow the correct way to write software.

You know your codebase (as well as anyone, anyway). You know your language, the libraries and frameworks you're using. It's good that you know those things, and that you know you'll be learning new ones in a year. You don't need someone to come in and tell you what to do.

You need hope when you're anxious. Let's talk about how you're handling source control. Is it making your life easier? Harder? What hurts about it?

You need communication when you're frustrated. How does your team work together? Do you have alignment on expectations? Are agreements kept, or do they disappear in a fog right after they're made?

You need hope, and conflict resolution, and even some joy at work. You need some communication and collaboration skills of a particular kind, especially for technical folks. You need to get practice looking at your code with a beginner's mind, and talking _about code_ with your team.


